Terraform registry blog post (#521)
pagopa/dx: apps/website/blog/004-terraform-registry-journey.mdx

---
title: "Publishing Terraform Modules and Provider from Our Monorepo: Lessons Learned"
description: How we managed to publish and maintain Terraform modules and provider from our monorepo
slug: terraform-registry-journey
hide_table_of_contents: false
date: 2025-04-28T10:00
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Publishing Terraform Modules and Provider from Our Monorepo: Lessons Learned

At PagoPA, we heavily rely on Infrastructure as Code (IaC) practices to deliver our cloud solutions. Terraform has become a fundamental tool in our engineering toolkit, allowing us to manage our infrastructure efficiently and ensure consistency across environments.

As our projects grew in number and complexity, we faced a common challenge: how to effectively share and reuse Terraform code while maintaining quality and consistency.
This led us to explore publishing our modules and provider to the Terraform Registry, all while preserving our internal development process based on a monorepo structure.

> In this post, we'll share our journey, the challenges we faced, and the technical solutions we implemented to bridge the gap between developing Terraform modules in a single repository and meeting the Terraform Registry requirements.

Reviewer: suggestion: I'd add somewhere that "we" refers to the DX / Platform team ie. 
```suggestion
In this post, we'll share our journey as DX team, the challenges we faced, and the technical solutions we implemented to bridge the gap between developing Terraform modules in a single repository and meeting the Terraform Registry requirements.
```

---
title: "Publishing Terraform Modules and Provider from Our Monorepo: Lessons Learned"
description: How we managed to publish and maintain Terraform modules and provider from our monorepo
slug: terraform-registry-journey
hide_table_of_contents: false
date: 2025-04-28T10:00
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Publishing Terraform Modules and Provider from Our Monorepo: Lessons Learned

At PagoPA, we heavily rely on Infrastructure as Code (IaC) practices to deliver our cloud solutions. Terraform has become a fundamental tool in our engineering toolkit, allowing us to manage our infrastructure efficiently and ensure consistency across environments.

As our projects grew in number and complexity, we faced a common challenge: how to effectively share and reuse Terraform code while maintaining quality and consistency.

> This led us to explore publishing our modules and provider to the Terraform Registry, all while preserving our monorepo development workflow.

Reviewer: **suggestion**: "monorepo development workflow' might not be clear to a general reader. Does it refer to the Product team's workflow or the DX team's workflow?

Author: Is it clearer? "This led us to explore publishing our modules and provider to the Terraform Registry, all while preserving our internal development process based on a monorepo structure."

> In this post, we'll share our journey, challenges, and the technical solutions we implemented to bridge the gap between monorepo development and the Terraform Registry requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we'll share our journey, the challenges we faced, and the technical solutions we implemented to bridge the gap between developing Terraform modules in a single repository and meeting the Terraform Registry requirements.```

{/* truncate */}

## The Challenges We Faced

Before diving into our solution, let's outline the main challenges we were trying to overcome:

> 1. **Code Duplication**: Teams were copying and pasting Terraform code across projects, leading to inconsistencies and maintenance overhead.

Reviewer: **question**: I'm not understanding this point. How does using the registry solve this?
